README.md, before:

# ytAudioFetch <img src="ytaf.svg" width="100" height="100" align="right">
Light [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) gui that fetches audio from playlists/videos as .mp3's and tags them with artists, titles, and cover art/thumbnail

## Installation
### Command Line
1. Clone repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/DryPringleSoup/ytAudioFetch.git
   ```

2. Create virtual environment
   ```bash
   python -m venv ytafenv
   ```
3. Activate environment
  - On Windows
     ```bash
     ytafenv\Scripts\activate
     ```
  - On Linux
     ```bash
     source ytafenv/bin/activate
     ```

4. Install dependencies
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. Run GUI
   ```bash
   python ytAudioFetchGUI.py
   ```

Copy and paste
- Windows
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/DryPringleSoup/ytAudioFetch.git
    python -m venv ytafenv
    ytafenv\Scripts\activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python ytAudioFetchGUI.py
    ```

- Linux
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/DryPringleSoup/ytAudioFetch.git
    python -m venv ytafenv
    source ytafenv\bin\activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python ytAudioFetchGUI.py
    ```

## Guide
<img src="URLmodeLabelled.png" width="700" alt="labelled url mode">

1. **URL Mode** - This is the main mode, it allows to download any playlist's or video's audio
2. **JSON Mode** *(More info below next image)* - Using your own custom JSON file, you can put it your own tag data and have all the specified files be tagged
3. **Youtube URL to extract from** - playlist or single videos (this includes shorts) are valid
4. **Directory/Folder to save to** - you can either manually type it or press the folder icon and browse to find it
5. **Advanced options toggle** - Hides and unhides advanced options
6. **Dark Mode activator** - changes the theme to dark mode (see last image for previews)
7. **Verbose skip list** - normally when the program is done processing it shows a list of any videos/json entries whose downloads were skipped; turning on this will show all operations that were skipped like skipped tags and skipped saves. This often makes the list much longer
8. **Download operation** - whether or not to download the audio file
9. **Tag operation** - whether or not to tag the audio file with tags checked in 13-17
10. **Save operation** - whether or not to save the tag data to a JSON file
11. **Replacing files** - replace existing files with the same name, works by checking if the file already exists that also looks like "YTAF-[id]-[title].mp3" so, if you change the file name, the original will not be replaced
12. **Tag existing** - uses the same check as 11 to determine existing files. When turned off, skips tagging if the file already exists
13. **Youtube url tag** - gets saved to the WOAS (sourceURL) ID3 tag
14. **Title tag** - gets saved to the TIT2 (title) ID3 tag
15. **Artist tag** - gets saved to the TPE1 (artist) ID3 tag
   - *Note for 14 and 15*: when the original youtube title in the form "[this] - [that]", it gets parsed as "[artist] - [title]", otherwise the title is just the original title and the artist is just the channel name (I know this is not a perfect solution but it works a good 7 / 10 times so I don't particularly care enough to think of something more convoluted). Also, if the artist is the channel name, it removes the " - Topic" from the end of the title in autogenerated tracks made by youtube
16. **Uploader tag** - gets saved to the TPUD (publisher) ID3 tag (this is the channel name)
17. **Thumbnail tag** - gets saved to the APIC (picture) ID3 tag
18. **Save file path** - where to save the JSON file
19. **Start button** - begin the script in the current mode
20. **Status feed** - updates as the script runs; shows the current video being processed and, when finished, the list of skipped operations
21. **Output feed** - updates as the script runs; shows the console output from the script

<img src="JSONmodeLabelled.png" width="700" alt="labelled json mode">

1. **Json file to extract from**
   - json files should be formatted like this
    ```json
    {
      ⋯ ,
      "[file path to mp3]": {
         "url": "[youtube URL (playlist URLs don't work)]",
         "title": "[track title]",
         "artist": "[artist(s)]",
         "uploader": "[uploader]",
         "thumbnail": "[file path to image or raw link to image file]"
      },
      ⋯
    }
    ```
   - *Note*: not all tags are required to be included, however only supported tags (see 13-17) will be added

## App Previews
![app previews](allLooks.png)

Commit message:

added support for descriptions, fixed bug with source urls not appearing, updated read me with new look, added some more notes to the readme

README.md, after:

# ytAudioFetch <img src="ytaf.svg" width="100" height="100" align="right">
Light [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) gui that fetches audio from playlists/videos as .mp3's and tags them with artists, titles, and cover art/thumbnail

## Installation
### Command Line
1. Clone repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/DryPringleSoup/ytAudioFetch.git
   ```

2. Create virtual environment
   ```bash
   python -m venv ytafenv
   ```
3. Activate environment
  - On Windows
     ```bash
     ytafenv\Scripts\activate
     ```
  - On Linux
     ```bash
     source ytafenv/bin/activate
     ```

4. Install dependencies
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. Run GUI
   ```bash
   python ytAudioFetchGUI.py
   ```

Copy and paste
- Windows
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/DryPringleSoup/ytAudioFetch.git
    python -m venv ytafenv
    ytafenv\Scripts\activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python ytAudioFetchGUI.py
    ```

- Linux
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/DryPringleSoup/ytAudioFetch.git
    python -m venv ytafenv
    source ytafenv\bin\activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    python ytAudioFetchGUI.py
    ```

## Guide
<img src="URLmodeLabelled.png" width="700" alt="labelled url mode">

1. **URL Mode** - This is the main mode, it allows to download any playlist's or video's audio
2. **JSON Mode** *(More info below next image)* - Using your own custom JSON file, you can put it your own tag data and have all the specified files be tagged
3. **Youtube URL to extract from** - playlist or single videos (this includes shorts) are valid
4. **Directory/Folder to save to** - you can either manually type it or press the folder icon and browse to find it
5. **Advanced options toggle** - Hides and unhides advanced options
6. **Dark Mode activator** - changes the theme to dark mode (see last image for previews)
7. **Verbose skip list** - normally when the program is done processing it shows a list of any videos/json entries whose downloads were skipped; turning on this will show all operations that were skipped like skipped tags and skipped saves. This often makes the list much longer
8. ***Download operation** - whether or not to download the audio file
9. **Tag operation** - whether or not to tag the audio file with tags checked in 13-17
10. **Save operation** - whether or not to save the tag data to a JSON file
11. **Replacing files** - replace existing files with the same name, works by checking if the file already exists that also looks like "YTAF-[id]-[title].mp3" so, if you change the file name, the original will not be replaced
12. **Tag existing** - uses the same check as 11 to determine existing files. When turned off, skips tagging if the file already exists
13. **Youtube url tag** - gets saved to the WOAS (sourceURL) ID3 tag
14. ****Title tag** - gets saved to the TIT2 (title) ID3 tag
15. ****Artist tag** - gets saved to the TPE1 (artist) ID3 tag
17. ***Thumbnail tag** - gets saved to the APIC (picture) ID3 tag
18. ***Description tag** - gets saved to COMM (comment) ID3 tag
19. **Save file path** - where to save the JSON file
20. **Start button** - begin the script in the current mode
21. **Status feed** - updates as the script runs; shows the current video being processed and, when finished, the list of skipped operations
22. **Output feed** - updates as the script runs; shows the console output from the script
   - **Note for 8, 16, and 17*: downloading videos or extracting thumbails/descriptions information requires the extractor to download the audio the full webpage info which can make fetching large playlists very slow , if all you want is to tag/save the other tags, turn off downloading, thumbnails, and descriptions for a much faster extraction
   - ***Note for 14 and 15*: when the original youtube title in the form "[this] - [that]", it gets parsed as "[artist] - [title]", otherwise the title is just the original title and the artist is just the channel name (I know this is not a perfect solution but it works a good 7 / 10 times so I don't particularly care enough to think of something more convoluted). Also, if the artist is the channel name, it removes the " - Topic" from the end of the title in autogenerated tracks made by youtube

<br>

<img src="JSONmodeLabelled.png" width="700" alt="labelled json mode">

1. **Json file to extract from**
   - json files should be formatted like this
    ```json
    {
      ⋯ ,
      "[file path to mp3]": {
         "url": "[youtube URL (playlist URLs don't work)]",
         "title": "[track title]",
         "artist": "[artist(s)]",
         "uploader": "[uploader]",
         "thumbnail": "[file path to image or raw link to image file]".
         "description": "[description]"
      },
      ⋯
    }
    ```
   - *Note*: not all tags are required to be included, however only supported tags (see 13-17) will be added

## App Previews
![app previews](allLooks.png)
